Query: Electric vehicle financial sentiment comparison between US and global market
Title: China: Looking beyond the headlines | BNY Investments
Link: https://www.bny.com/investments/us/en/intermediary/articles/markets-and-economy/china-looking-beyond-the-headlines.html
Snippet: ... electric vehicle (EV) industry and the impact on Western manufacturers; The ... global EV market. Even Elon Musk, once dismissive of Tesla's Chinese ...

Full Content:
AUTHOR
Michael Scott & Paul Loudon
Walter Scott Investment Managers
Chongqing and Chengdu
Much has changed in China in the last
decade. China’s economy is stalling, the
country is proving a much trickier market
for Western brands, and geopolitical risk
looms large.
However, a trip to two of the fastest growing cities in China, Chongqing and Chengdu, served as a healthy reminder about making generalizations about a country as complex as China. Though Chongqing and Chengdu are not first-tier cities,1 they are dynamic and important cities for China’s economy. These two cities are the focal points of the Chengdu-Chongqing Economic Circle,
the first national-level economic development zone in the west of the country and their economies are now among the most vibrant due to the growing presence of high-end manufacturing
alongside low-cost renewable electricity and affordable housing.
Across a series of meetings, we spoke with companies from a diverse range of sectors.
Three areas were of particular interest:
An Electric Vehicle Superpower
Scroll back to 2021 and China’s auto
manufacturers lagged well behind the
traditional exporting powerhouses
of Germany, Japan and South Korea.
Today, the country is the world’s leading
exporter of passenger cars. How China
managed this impressive feat is in
large part due to its expertise in electric
vehicles (EVs).
Contrary to the popular narrative
of China being a copier of Western
innovation, the country’s EV players
are among the most innovative auto
companies globally. State support has
been vital to their development, but
these are no mere subsidy junkies. Many
are efficient, leading-edge businesses.
Not only are their vehicles considerably
cheaper than those of Western peers,
but they can develop and release new
models much more quickly. Little wonder
that they have come to dominate the
global EV market. Even Elon Musk, once
dismissive of Tesla’s Chinese rivals,
has grudgingly acknowledged that its
auto manufacturers are “the most
competitive car companies in the world.”
We believe that all of this signals tough
times ahead for the Western marques
operating in China today. The likes of
BMW, Mercedes, Audi and Tesla (which
recently exported its millionth vehicle
from its Chinese manufacturing facility) might still dominate the premium
end of the market, but the domestic
competition is gaining on them with
better technology, longer battery ranges,
and lower price points. China’s EV market
is becoming increasingly competitive
for Western brands, many of which have
staked a great deal on success in China.
It’s not all good news for China’s EV
players, however. The imposition of trade
tariffs by the US and EU has complicated
the export route map, an unhelpful
development at a time when many
companies are looking to overseas
expansion as an offset to intense
domestic competition.
Speaking with one of the major
Chongqing-based auto players, it
was clear that its export focus for
now is Southeast Asia, a market
with enormous potential and fewer
geopolitical complications. The share
of Chinese-made autos in the region
is projected to grow from 13% in 2023
to 27% in 2030, with EVs accounting
for 60–70% of vehicles sold.2

Green Silicon Valley
Rich in natural resources and access to clean energy, the Chengdu-Chongqing Economic Circle is central to China’s ambitions of achieving energy independence. In today’s uncertain geopolitical environment, Beijing has identified a reliance on imported energy as a strategic vulnerability. This desire for energy security, more than environmental considerations, has prompted huge investment in low-carbon technologies in recent years.
While still heavily dependent on imported fossil fuels, China is now the world leader in solar and wind power, with installed capacity massively outstripping other major economies. It has also established dominant positions in renewable supply chains. In solar, it is estimated to have around
80% of the world’s polysilicon, wafer, cell, and module manufacturing capacity.3 Meanwhile, four of its wind turbine manufacturers are in the world’s top five.
The Chengdu-Chongqing Economic
Circle is home to China’s “Green Silicon
Valley,” a vast ecosystem of companies
involved in the solar power supply
chain. GCL Technology, for example,
manufactures polysilicon for use
in photovoltaic solar panels. An
unremarkable business until quite
recently, the acquisition of SunEdison’s
solar business enabled GCL to
commercialize a polysilicon manufacturing
process called FBR. Cheaper,
cleaner and reputedly producing
polysilicon of a higher quality than the
prevailing process, FBR has transformed
the company’s prospects.
Like other players in the solar supply
chain, however, GCL has endured a
hugely volatile few years. An explosive
upswing in demand when China formally
embarked on the path to decarbonization
and energy independence was inevitably
followed by a period of over-supply and
plummeting prices across the entire
supply chain. Now, with many companies
struggling to operate well below their
cost of production, supply is starting to
exit the industry. Once that process has
played out, the long-term outlook for
those companies left standing should
be extremely bright.

Welcome to Liquor City
Although its exact origins are unknown, baijiu, China’s national drink, is thought
to date back several thousand years.
A colorless spirit typically made from
a variety of raw materials, including
sorghum, rice, corn, barley and wheat,
the drink is an inseparable part of
Chinese etiquette and a must-have at
events and celebrations. Mao Zedong
presented baijiu as a gift to Joseph
Stalin when the two met in 1950 and
it was served at the welcoming banquet
for Richard Nixon’s epochal trip to China
in 1972. In 2023, global sales of baijiu
were estimated at US$167 billion.4
A couple of hours outside Chongqing
is Luzhou, also known as “Liquor City”
and home to some of China’s largest
and most storied baijiu producers.
One of these, Luzhou Laojiao, operates
400-year-old fermentation pits, in
which sorghum grain is fermented
over a period of months. Over time, the
unique microbiome of each pit develops
ever-more complexity. We believe this
unparalleled maturity creates a strong
brand narrative and acts as a major
barrier to entry for Luzhou Laojiao’s
ultra-premium baijiu.
Also based in Luzhou is Wuliangye Yibin,
China’s second largest baijiu producer
and the second most valuable spirits
brand globally (its fierce competitor
Moutai is first, with Luzhou Laojiao
third). For comparison, Wuliangye’s
brand was valued at US$26 billion,
more than four times that of the nearest
Western brand, Hennessy. Wuliangye
plays at the higher end of the baijiu
price curve and so is well positioned,
in our view, to benefit from the
“premiumization” trend of Chinese
drinkers trading up in quality. It recently
released a hyper-premium product
costing over 2,000RMB per bottle
(around US$280), tapping into the
ever-increasing demand from the
richest in Chinese society.
However, both Wuliangye and Luzhou
Laojiao spoke of headwinds from a
slowdown in consumer spending.
Big occasions for high-end baijiu
consumption, such as banquets and
business celebrations, are happening
less frequently, and the propensity for
gift giving is also subdued. While this
has been offset by the structural growth
of the market and the trend towards
premiumization, it may take time before
growth accelerates to the eye-catching
levels of the baijiu boom of a few
years ago.
Opening the
Chinese Wallet
Reinvigorating consumer confidence,
alongside stabilizing its troubled
real-estate sector, is the key challenge
facing Chinese policymakers. The
downbeat messaging of the baijiu
houses in Luzhou was echoed by
companies we met with in Hong Kong.
Companies from the beauty, apparel and
luxury sectors spoke of a challenging
environment in which consumers are
choosing to save rather than spend.
The one silver lining appears to be that
this caution is sentiment driven rather
than due to falling incomes or genuine
economic hardship. In short, the
Chinese consumer is worried.
The million-dollar question now is
whether Beijing’s recently announced
package of monetary stimulus and
still-vague statements concerning
supportive fiscal measures will be
enough to resuscitate the “animal
spirits” of the Chinese consumer and
stabilize the country’s troubled real
estate sector, which has been a key drag
on consumer confidence and industrial
activity. Can Beijing pull off its own

“Draghi moment,” a “whatever it takes” intervention that puts a floor under
property prices and establishes mechanisms for clearing inventory?
In the immediate aftermath of the announcement, the market signaled its
approval, sending Chinese stocks on a rally in the closing days of September.
The euphoria did not last long, however, and investors have since been more
circumspect. The onus is now on policymakers to follow through on their
initial communications with concrete details of substantial and well-crafted
fiscal support.
Final Thoughts
Traveling around China can serve as a
useful antidote to the negative media
coverage of the country we are often
exposed to in the West. Contrary to
some of the more doom-laden headlines,
there is still a huge amount of economic
dynamism and innovation on display.
The country is also making genuine
progress in its efforts to move up the
manufacturing value chain as it attempts
to transition away from its old investment
and property-led model.
That said, there are clearly issues that
the country needs to address. There is
clear evidence of real estate overbuild
and industrial over-capacity, as well as
prevalent signs of economic pain outside
the big cities. As mentioned above, the
authorities have work to do to boost
the average consumer’s sense of
financial security.
What does all this mean for investors?
We don’t subscribe to the view that the
China “story” is over. True, the days of
breakneck economic growth may be
a thing of the past, but as the country
positions itself at the forefront of
emerging trends, such as renewable
energy and electric vehicles, it is
becoming an ever more important
component of the global economy. China,
in our view, will continue to offer exciting
opportunities for the right company, with
the right strategy and the right product.
1 Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou and Shenzhen. These cities are known for being important political, cultural, industrial and financial centers in China. The classification is based on a variety of parameters such as population, size, GDP, and administrative hierarchy.
2 BBVA Research, China EV sector: forging ahead amid intensifying headwinds, June 2024.
3 Wood Mackenzie, “China dominance on global solar supply chain,” November 2023.
4 Forbes, “What You Should Know About Baiju, The ‘World’s Most Popular Spirit,’” August 2024.
 
Animal spirits is a term coined by British economist John Maynard Keynes to describe how people arrive at financial decisions, including buying and selling securities, in times of economic stress or uncertainty.
All investments involve risk, including the possible loss of principal. Certain investments involve greater or unique risks that should be considered along with the objectives, fees, and expenses before investing.
Company information is mentioned only for informational purposes and should not be construed as investment or any other advice. The holdings listed should not be considered recommendations to buy or sell a security.
BNY Investments is one of the world’s leading investment management organizations, encompassing BNY’s affiliated investment management firms and global distribution companies. BNY is the corporate brand of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation and may be used to reference the corporation as a whole and/or its various subsidiaries generally.
This material has been provided for informational purposes only and should not be construed as investment advice or a recommendation of any particular investment product, strategy, investment manager or account arrangement, and should not serve as a primary basis for investment decisions.
Prospective investors should consult a legal, tax or financial professional in order to determine whether any investment product, strategy or service is appropriate for their particular circumstances. Views expressed are those of the author stated and do not reflect views of other managers or the firm overall. Views are current as of the date of this publication and subject to change.
The information is based on current market conditions, which will fluctuate and may be superseded by subsequent market events or for other reasons. References to specific securities, asset classes and financial markets are for illustrative purposes only and are not intended to be and should not be interpreted as recommendations. Information contained herein has been obtained from sources believed to be reliable, but not guaranteed. No part of this material may be reproduced in any form, or referred to in any other publication, without express written permission.
Walter Scott & Partners Limited (“Walter Scott”) is an investment management firm authorized and regulated in the United Kingdom by the Financial Conduct Authority in the conduct of investment business. Walter Scott is a subsidiary of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation.
© 2024 BNY Mellon Securities Corporation, distributor, 240 Greenwich Street, 9th Floor, New York, NY 10286.
MARK-616774-2024-10-17

1 Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou and Shenzhen. These cities are known for being important political, cultural, industrial and financial centers in China. The classification is based on a variety of parameters such as population, size, GDP, and administrative hierarchy.
2 BBVA Research, China EV sector: forging ahead amid intensifying headwinds, June 2024.
3 Wood Mackenzie, “China dominance on global solar supply chain,” November 2023.
4 Forbes, “What You Should Know About Baiju, The ‘World’s Most Popular Spirit,’” August 2024.
 
Animal spirits is a term coined by British economist John Maynard Keynes to describe how people arrive at financial decisions, including buying and selling securities, in times of economic stress or uncertainty.
All investments involve risk, including the possible loss of principal. Certain investments involve greater or unique risks that should be considered along with the objectives, fees, and expenses before investing.
Company information is mentioned only for informational purposes and should not be construed as investment or any other advice. The holdings listed should not be considered recommendations to buy or sell a security.
BNY Investments is one of the world’s leading investment management organizations, encompassing BNY’s affiliated investment management firms and global distribution companies. BNY is the corporate brand of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation and may be used to reference the corporation as a whole and/or its various subsidiaries generally.
This material has been provided for informational purposes only and should not be construed as investment advice or a recommendation of any particular investment product, strategy, investment manager or account arrangement, and should not serve as a primary basis for investment decisions.
Prospective investors should consult a legal, tax or financial professional in order to determine whether any investment product, strategy or service is appropriate for their particular circumstances. Views expressed are those of the author stated and do not reflect views of other managers or the firm overall. Views are current as of the date of this publication and subject to change.
The information is based on current market conditions, which will fluctuate and may be superseded by subsequent market events or for other reasons. References to specific securities, asset classes and financial markets are for illustrative purposes only and are not intended to be and should not be interpreted as recommendations. Information contained herein has been obtained from sources believed to be reliable, but not guaranteed. No part of this material may be reproduced in any form, or referred to in any other publication, without express written permission.
Walter Scott & Partners Limited (“Walter Scott”) is an investment management firm authorized and regulated in the United Kingdom by the Financial Conduct Authority in the conduct of investment business. Walter Scott is a subsidiary of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation.
© 2024 BNY Mellon Securities Corporation, distributor, 240 Greenwich Street, 9th Floor, New York, NY 10286.
MARK-616774-2024-10-17
1.877.334.6899
Monday-Friday
 8:30am-6pm ET
Not FDIC-Insured | No Bank Guarantee | May Lose Value
BNY is the corporate brand of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation and may be used to reference the corporation as a whole and/or its various subsidiaries generally.
© 2025 BNY Mellon Securities Corporation, Distributor, 240 Greenwich Street, 9th Floor, New York, NY 10286.