Query: Financial performance of US electric vehicle companies
Title: NVIDIA Announces Financial Results for First Quarter Fiscal 2025 ...
Link: https://nvidianews.nvidia.com/news/nvidia-announces-financial-results-for-first-quarter-fiscal-2025
Snippet: May 22, 2024 ... Revealed U.S. and China electric vehicle makers Lucid and IM Motors ... company's historical financial performance. The presentation of ...

Full Content:
NVIDIA (NASDAQ: NVDA) today reported revenue for the first quarter ended April 28, 2024, of $26.0 billion, up 18% from the previous quarter and up 262% from a year ago.
For the quarter, GAAP earnings per diluted share was $5.98, up 21% from the previous quarter and up 629% from a year ago. Non-GAAP earnings per diluted share was $6.12, up 19% from the previous quarter and up 461% from a year ago.
“The next industrial revolution has begun — companies and countries are partnering with NVIDIA to shift the trillion-dollar traditional data centers to accelerated computing and build a new type of data center — AI factories — to produce a new commodity: artificial intelligence,” said Jensen Huang, founder and CEO of NVIDIA. “AI will bring significant productivity gains to nearly every industry and help companies be more cost- and energy-efficient, while expanding revenue opportunities.
“Our data center growth was fueled by strong and accelerating demand for generative AI training and inference on the Hopper platform. Beyond cloud service providers, generative AI has expanded to consumer internet companies, and enterprise, sovereign AI, automotive and healthcare customers, creating multiple multibillion-dollar vertical markets.
“We are poised for our next wave of growth. The Blackwell platform is in full production and forms the foundation for trillion-parameter-scale generative AI. Spectrum-X opens a brand-new market for us to bring large-scale AI to Ethernet-only data centers. And NVIDIA NIM is our new software offering that delivers enterprise-grade, optimized generative AI to run on CUDA everywhere — from the cloud to on-prem data centers and RTX AI PCs — through our expansive network of ecosystem partners.”
NVIDIA also announced a ten-for-one forward stock split of NVIDIA’s issued common stock to make stock ownership more accessible to employees and investors. The split will be effected through an amendment to NVIDIA’s Restated Certificate of Incorporation, which will result in a proportionate increase in the number of shares of authorized common stock. Each record holder of common stock as of the close of market on Thursday, June 6, 2024, will receive nine additional shares of common stock, to be distributed after the close of market on Friday, June 7, 2024. Trading is expected to commence on a split-adjusted basis at market open on Monday, June 10, 2024.
NVIDIA is increasing its quarterly cash dividend by 150% from $0.04 per share to $0.10 per share of common stock. The increased dividend is equivalent to $0.01 per share on a post-split basis and will be paid on Friday, June 28, 2024, to all shareholders of record on Tuesday, June 11, 2024.
Q1 Fiscal 2025 Summary
 
Outlook
NVIDIA’s outlook for the second quarter of fiscal 2025 is as follows:
Highlights
NVIDIA achieved progress since its previous earnings announcement in these areas: 
Data Center 
Gaming and AI PC
Professional Visualization
Automotive and Robotics
CFO Commentary
Commentary on the quarter by Colette Kress, NVIDIA’s executive vice president and chief financial officer, is available at https://investor.nvidia.com.
Conference Call and Webcast Information
NVIDIA will conduct a conference call with analysts and investors to discuss its first quarter fiscal 2025 financial results and current financial prospects today at 2 p.m. Pacific time (5 p.m. Eastern time). A live webcast (listen-only mode) of the conference call will be accessible at NVIDIA’s investor relations website, https://investor.nvidia.com. The webcast will be recorded and available for replay until NVIDIA’s conference call to discuss its financial results for its second quarter of fiscal 2025.
Non-GAAP Measures
To supplement NVIDIA’s condensed consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with GAAP, the company uses non-GAAP measures of certain components of financial performance. These non-GAAP measures include non-GAAP gross profit, non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP income from operations, non-GAAP other income (expense), net, non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP net income, or earnings, per diluted share, and free cash flow. For NVIDIA’s investors to be better able to compare its current results with those of previous periods, the company has shown a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures. These reconciliations adjust the related GAAP financial measures to exclude stock-based compensation expense, acquisition-related and other costs, other, gains and losses from non-affiliated investments, interest expense related to amortization of debt discount, and the associated tax impact of these items where applicable. Free cash flow is calculated as GAAP net cash provided by operating activities less both purchases related to property and equipment and intangible assets and principal payments on property and equipment and intangible assets. NVIDIA believes the presentation of its non-GAAP financial measures enhances the user’s overall understanding of the company’s historical financial performance. The presentation of the company’s non-GAAP financial measures is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the company’s financial results prepared in accordance with GAAP, and the company’s non-GAAP measures may be different from non-GAAP measures used by other companies.
 
 
 
 
 


About NVIDIA
NVIDIA (NASDAQ: NVDA) is the world leader in accelerated computing.
Certain statements in this press release including, but not limited to, statements as to: companies and countries building AI factories with NVIDIA accelerated computing to produce artificial intelligence; accelerating demand for generative AI training and inference on the Hopper platform; the expanding reach of generative AI; generative AI expanding to consumer internet companies, and enterprise, sovereign AI, automotive, and healthcare customers, creating multiple multibillion-dollar vertical markets; NVIDIA being poised for the next wave of growth; the Blackwell platform in full production and forming the foundation for trillion-parameter-scale generative AI; Spectrum-X opening a brand-new market for NVIDIA to bring large-scale AI to Ethernet-only data centers; NVIDIA NIM as NVIDIA’s new software offering that delivers enterprise-grade, optimized generative AI run on CUDA everywhere — from the cloud, to on-prem data centers and RTX AI PCs — through NVIDIA’s expansive network of ecosystem partners; NVIDIA's forward stock split; NVIDIA’s next quarterly cash dividend; gross margins being in the mid-70% range for the full year; full-year operating expenses growing in the low-40% range; and NVIDIA’s financial outlook and expected tax rates for the second quarter of fiscal 2025 are forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause results to be materially different than expectations. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include: global economic conditions; our reliance on third parties to manufacture, assemble, package and test our products; the impact of technological development and competition; development of new products and technologies or enhancements to our existing product and technologies; market acceptance of our products or our partners’ products; design, manufacturing or software defects; changes in consumer preferences or demands; changes in industry standards and interfaces; and unexpected loss of performance of our products or technologies when integrated into systems, as well as other factors detailed from time to time in the most recent reports NVIDIA files with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, including, but not limited to, its annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. Copies of reports filed with the SEC are posted on the company’s website and are available from NVIDIA without charge. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and speak only as of the date hereof, and, except as required by law, NVIDIA disclaims any obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances.
© 2024 NVIDIA Corporation. All rights reserved. NVIDIA, the NVIDIA logo, GeForce NOW, NVIDIA DGX SuperPOD, NVIDIA DRIVE, NVIDIA DRIVE Orin, NVIDIA DRIVE Thor, NVIDIA RTX and NVIDIA Spectrum are trademarks and/or registered trademarks of NVIDIA Corporation in the U.S. and/or other countries. Other company and product names may be trademarks of the respective companies with which they are associated. Features, pricing, availability and specifications are subject to change without notice.
Download / File Link
About NVIDIA
NVIDIA (NASDAQ: NVDA) is the world leader in accelerated computing.
Certain statements in this press release including, but not limited to, statements as to: companies and countries building AI factories with NVIDIA accelerated computing to produce artificial intelligence; accelerating demand for generative AI training and inference on the Hopper platform; the expanding reach of generative AI; generative AI expanding to consumer internet companies, and enterprise, sovereign AI, automotive, and healthcare customers, creating multiple multibillion-dollar vertical markets; NVIDIA being poised for the next wave of growth; the Blackwell platform in full production and forming the foundation for trillion-parameter-scale generative AI; Spectrum-X opening a brand-new market for NVIDIA to bring large-scale AI to Ethernet-only data centers; NVIDIA NIM as NVIDIA’s new software offering that delivers enterprise-grade, optimized generative AI run on CUDA everywhere — from the cloud, to on-prem data centers and RTX AI PCs — through NVIDIA’s expansive network of ecosystem partners; NVIDIA's forward stock split; NVIDIA’s next quarterly cash dividend; gross margins being in the mid-70% range for the full year; full-year operating expenses growing in the low-40% range; and NVIDIA’s financial outlook and expected tax rates for the second quarter of fiscal 2025 are forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause results to be materially different than expectations. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include: global economic conditions; our reliance on third parties to manufacture, assemble, package and test our products; the impact of technological development and competition; development of new products and technologies or enhancements to our existing product and technologies; market acceptance of our products or our partners’ products; design, manufacturing or software defects; changes in consumer preferences or demands; changes in industry standards and interfaces; and unexpected loss of performance of our products or technologies when integrated into systems, as well as other factors detailed from time to time in the most recent reports NVIDIA files with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, including, but not limited to, its annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. Copies of reports filed with the SEC are posted on the company’s website and are available from NVIDIA without charge. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and speak only as of the date hereof, and, except as required by law, NVIDIA disclaims any obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances.
© 2024 NVIDIA Corporation. All rights reserved. NVIDIA, the NVIDIA logo, GeForce NOW, NVIDIA DGX SuperPOD, NVIDIA DRIVE, NVIDIA DRIVE Orin, NVIDIA DRIVE Thor, NVIDIA RTX and NVIDIA Spectrum are trademarks and/or registered trademarks of NVIDIA Corporation in the U.S. and/or other countries. Other company and product names may be trademarks of the respective companies with which they are associated. Features, pricing, availability and specifications are subject to change without notice.
Global contacts for media inquiries.
Newsroom updates delivered to your inbox.