Query: Investor sentiment towards electric vehicle sector in the US
Title: Zero-Emission Electric Vehicle Charging and Refueling ...
Link: https://driveelectric.gov/industry
Snippet: ... vehicle (EV) charging industry to ensure confidence in public and private investments ... Skip to main content. U.S. flag. An official website of the United ...

Full Content:
An official website of the United States government
          

            Here’s how you know
          

 Official websites use .gov 

              A .gov website belongs to an official government
              organization in the United States.
            

 Secure .gov websites use HTTPS 

              A lock (
              
Lock
A locked padlock

              ) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to
              the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official,
              secure websites.
            
The Joint Office of Energy and Transportation (Joint Office) is your partner in government to accelerate zero-emission fueling and transportation projects and bring energy innovation to life. The private sector brings a wealth of expertise and real-world perspective to this space, which the Joint Office helps leverage to develop effective zero-emission fueling programs and resources.
Energy and transportation innovation represent a powerful opportunity for both the private and public sectors to benefit from each other’s strengths. We’re setting a strong foundation for the future of transportation and mobility in America by making larger  and better aligned investments, together.
The Joint Office is kick-starting vital innovations in the private sector. From advancing the development of common connector standards to evolving open-source software solutions and supporting electrical distribution and transmission innovation, the Joint Office is here to catalyze and help scale new mobility and energy technologies. In addition to funding opportunities, the Joint Office has established the standards and frameworks for the electric vehicle (EV) charging industry to innovate on a secure, interoperable foundation and move forward with confidence in the longevity of their investments.
The federal government does not build zero-emission EV charging and refueling infrastructure alone, and that’s why private sector collaboration is so crucial—and why the Joint Office is uniquely designed to accelerate that engagement. We cultivate knowledge, investment, and innovation from the private sector to keep our strategies grounded in practical, achievable goals that align with industry realities. We’ve also handled hundreds of technical assistance inquiries from the private sector to support efficient rollout of zero-emission infrastructure.
Government funding complements private investment, filling in gaps in the national charging network to make it easy for everyone to choose to ride and drive electric. Public funding can also support charging projects before the financial break-even point so companies can make investments now that will pay off in the long term—giving more people and businesses the confidence to proceed with electrification.
Research shows that most charging happens at home and work, where cars are parked for longer periods of time and energy use is more flexible. Public sector support for approaches such as curbside Level 2 charging is crucial to give more mobility choices to people who can’t access charging at home.
Private sector companies are invited to bid into the National Electric Vehicle Infrastructure (NEVI) Formula Program and Charging and Fueling Infrastructure Program opportunities released by states and communities. Find NEVI state plans. Check back here for information about NEVI requests for proposals issued by states.
The following states currently have open NEVI solicitations:
The Joint Office has funded innovative approaches to zero-emission infrastructure and related needs through the following programs:
For those new to working with the government, there can be a bit of a learning curve. We’re here to accelerate that curve, cut red tape, and clarify requirements in the interest of efficient, effective public-private partnerships. The following resources will get you started with understanding requirements for federally funded EV charging projects, as well as working with the government more generally.
The Joint Office also supports zero-emission transit and school buses. These resources provide clarity on relevant programs:
To facilitate public and private sector communication about zero-emission technology trends, opportunities, and challenges, the Joint Office regularly convenes the National Charging Experience (ChargeX) Consortium and Electric Vehicle Working Group (EVWG).
ChargeX publications are available online, and EVWG meetings are open to the public.
The Joint Office also develops strategic frameworks such as the National Zero-Emission Freight Corridor Strategy to align public and private sector investment in the future of transportation. Through our standards work, we’ve established the technical foundation for rapid industry innovation.
Through these groups, strategies, standards, and other channels, the Joint Office has created new models for how government works with industry, moving beyond recommendations and white papers to create effective forums for ongoing engagement and the development of practical real-world tools people can use today.
Investments in zero-emission transportation and clean energy are creating good-paying jobs and revitalizing communities across the country. The Joint Office is supporting workforce development efforts across the spectrum, covering positions from electrician apprenticeships to electric vehicle supply equipment (EVSE) maintenance technicians and software developers for grid interactions.
See the NEVI FAQ to learn how the Electric Vehicle Infrastructure Training Program and Independent Electrical Contractors Electric Vehicle Charging Station Training Program (IEC Training Advantage) meet the requirements of 23 CFR 680.106(j)(1) for electricians installing, operating, or maintaining EVSE. Most EVSE-related work involves EVSE technicians, who focus on technical installation, configuration, maintenance, and troubleshooting.
Learn more about our workforce development efforts at the Joint Office.
Here’s how we’re supporting energy and transportation innovation—and how it’s supporting everyday Americans:
There are many federal tools and resources available to help with planning charging locations, designing charging stations, performing financial analysis, and applying for grants. Businesses can leverage these tools to understand the federal approach and compare with private sector models.
Sign up to receive industry news, insights, resources, webinar updates, and event information.
Get assistance with specific requests for program requirements and funding opportunities.