Query: Electric vehicle financial sentiment comparison between US and global market
Title: October 2023 Active Management Insights | Russell Investments
Link: https://russellinvestments.com/us/blog/october-2023-active-management-insights
Snippet: Oct 26, 2023 ... ... differences are neutralized, the UK's discount to global equities is approaching 30%. ... Deflationary pressure from competitive Chinese EV ( ...

Full Content:
The page at russellinvestments.com says:
You are now leaving RussellInvestments.com. The following link may contain information concerning investments other than those offered by Russell Investments, its affiliates or subsidiaries. Neither Russell Investments nor its affiliates are responsible for investment decisions made with respect to such investments or for the accuracy or completeness of information about such investments. The material available on this site has been produced by independent providers that are not affiliated with Russell Investments. Descriptions of, references to, or links to products or publications within any linked web site does not imply endorsement of that product or publication by Russell Investments. Any opinions or recommendations expressed are solely those of the independent providers and are not the opinions or recommendations of Russell Investments, which is not responsible for any inaccuracies or errors.
Executive summary:
The third quarter saw an end to the strong run in equity markets, with markets posting their first negative quarter in 12 months on concerns over the longevity of the higher interest rate environment.


Investors now anticipate that most central banks will need to hold rates at higher levels for a longer period of time than previously anticipated, as inflation remains above target levels in most developed economies. This adjustment in rate expectations sparked a renewal in negative sentiment during the third quarter. In addition, oil prices are expected to remain elevated in the wake of OPEC+ countries’ agreement to extend production cuts until the end of 2024, while the ongoing war between Russian and Ukraine and uncertainty in the Middle East following Hamas’ attack on Israel are also continuing to put pressure on inflation and broader investor sentiment.
Amid this uncertain backdrop, we believe that the views of specialist managers are critical to exploiting both risk and opportunity. Drawing on our unique relationship with underlying managers, we’ve compiled the latest insights from specialists across the manager universe into an easy-to-read report. Listed below are the broad overall trends from equity managers heading into the final months of the year, followed by the main tactical observations from key equity and geographic regions across the globe.


Higher-for-longer interest rates 
Commodities tailwinds
Higher energy prices for longer
China sentiment
Positive macro and governance reforms in Japan
Highly disruptive drug innovation


Earnings growth challenged in 2024
Keeping up the energy
Continuing opportunity in energy
Mixed views across materials sector
Financials are unattractive
High dividend yield stocks are likely to languish
Has China bottomed out?
Optimism for Latin America continues
India structurally attractive but expensive
Managers once again looking at Turkey
UK equities steeply discounted
Opportunity in domestically focused companies
A burgeoning case for insurers
Consumer environment favors companies that offer value
Asymmetrically attractive European value opportunities
Early signs of EVs’ competitive landscape
Commodities are becoming strategically defensive
Drug innovation is highly disruptive
Adding to Japan in wake of macro and governance reforms
Sentiment swings back toward growth
Managers increasingly positive on Japan equities
Rising optimism in Japan
Dynamics in China
Rekindled interest in equity long/short (L/S) strategies
Time for small caps?
Awaiting the impacts of higher interest rates
Opportunities in healthcare and consumer staples
1 Source: MSCI, IBES, Morgan Stanley Research (sector neutral - avg of PE, PB, PDiv).
1301 Second Avenue
18th Floor
Seattle, WA 98101
© Russell Investments Group, LLC. 1995-2025. All rights reserved. This material is proprietary and may not be reproduced, transferred, or distributed in any form without prior written permission from Russell Investments. It is delivered on an "as is" basis without warranty.
Products and services described on this website are intended for United States residents only. Nothing contained in this material is intended to constitute legal, tax, securities, or investment advice, nor an opinion regarding the appropriateness of any investment, nor a solicitation of any type. The general information contained on this website should not be acted upon without obtaining specific legal, tax, and investment advice from a licensed professional. Persons outside the United States may find more information about products and services available within their jurisdictions by going to Russell Investments' Worldwide site.
Russell Investments is committed to ensuring digital accessibility for people with disabilities. We are continually improving the user experience for everyone, and applying the relevant accessibility standards.
Russell Investments' ownership is composed of a majority stake held by funds managed by TA Associates Management, L.P., with a significant minority stake held by funds managed by Reverence Capital Partners, L.P. Certain of Russell Investments' employees and Hamilton Lane Advisors, LLC also hold minority, non-controlling, ownership stakes.