Query: Electric vehicle financial sentiment comparison between US and global market
Title: What Trump's win could mean for banks, autos and luxury goods ...
Link: https://www.capitalgroup.com/individual-investors/au/en/insights/articles/what-trumps-win-could-mean-for-banks-autos-and-luxury-goods.html
Snippet: Nov 18, 2024 ... ... vehicle in the United States to around $730. Within the big ... Economic outlook: Global growth dependent on a resilient US. Election.

Full Content:
ONLINE PORTAL
Capital Group New Perspective Fund (AU)
Capital Group Global Corporate Bond Fund Hedged (AU)
Capital Group New World Fund (AU)
Fund Centre
Investment Approach
Environmental Social & Governance​
See All Investments
Outlook
Markets & Economy
Equity
Fixed Income
ESG
Newsletter
See All Insights 
Application Form
Continuous disclosures
Invest via BPAY​
Frequently Asked Questions
See All Resources
Investment Approach
Our People
Our History
Careers
Office Locations
Contact Us​
See All About Us 
ONLINE PORTAL
Investment insights from Capital Group
Corporate earnings outlook softens, but remains solid
Sources: Capital Group, FactSet. Earnings growth refers to annual change in earnings per share. As of 8 November 2024.

Sources: Capital Group, FactSet. Earnings growth refers to annual change in earnings per share. As of 8 November 2024.
Auto sales softened as interest rates jumped
Sources: Capital Group, Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis. As of 30 September 2024.

Sources: Capital Group, Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis. As of 30 September 2024.
A spending slump in China spells uncertainty for luxury goods
Sources: Capital Group, China Statistics Bureau, MSCI, Standard & Poor's. Relative return represented by the difference in annualised cumulative total return between the S&P Global Luxury Index and the MSCI AC World Index starting 31 January 2019. As of 30 September 2024.

Sources: Capital Group, China Statistics Bureau, MSCI, Standard & Poor's. Relative return represented by the difference in annualised cumulative total return between the S&P Global Luxury Index and the MSCI AC World Index starting 31 January 2019. As of 30 September 2024.
Carl Kawaja is an equity portfolio manager with 36 years of investment industry experience (as of 12/31/2023). He is chair of Capital Research and Management Company. He holds an MBA from Columbia and a bachelor’s degree from Brown University.
Irfan Furniturewala is an equity portfolio manager with 24 years of industry experience (as of 12/31/23). He earned an MBA from Wharton, a master's in electrical engineering from Iowa State and a bachelor's in electronics engineering from Bombay University.
Drew Macklis is an equity investment analyst with seven years of industry experience (as of 12/31/2023). He holds an MBA from Harvard Business School and a bachelor's degree in economics and global affairs from Yale University.
Julie Wang Chou is an equity investment analyst who covers European luxury goods and telecoms. She has 19 years of investment industry experience. She holds an MBA from Stanford and bachelor's degrees in business administration and mass communication from the University of California, Berkeley.
Equity
Long-Term Investing
World Markets Review
Global Equities
Politics
RELATED INSIGHTS
Interest Rates
Interest Rates
Federal Reserve
Sign up now to get industry-leading insights and timely articles delivered to your inbox.
By providing your details you are agreeing to receive emails from Capital Group. All emails include an unsubscribe link and you may opt out at any time. For more information, please read the Capital Group Privacy Policy
Past results are not predictive of results in future periods. It is not possible to invest directly in an index, which is unmanaged. The value of investments and income from them can go down as well as up and you may lose some or all of your initial investment. This information is not intended to provide investment, tax or other advice, or to be a solicitation to buy or sell any securities.
Statements attributed to an individual represent the opinions of that individual as of the date published and do not necessarily reflect the opinions of Capital Group or its affiliates. All information is as at the date indicated unless otherwise stated. Some information may have been obtained from third parties, and as such the reliability of that information is not guaranteed.
Capital Group manages equity assets through three investment groups. These groups make investment and proxy voting decisions independently. Fixed income investment professionals provide fixed income research and investment management across the Capital organization; however, for securities with equity characteristics, they act solely on behalf of one of the three equity investment groups.
Copyright © 2025 Capital Group. All rights reserved.