Query: Reviews and sentiment analysis on top US electric vehicle stocks
Title: Best Auto Stocks to Buy in 2025 | The Motley Fool
Link: https://www.fool.com/investing/stock-market/market-sectors/consumer-discretionary/automotive-stocks/
Snippet: Dec 16, 2024 ... Get to know the most promising stocks in the automotive market, including electric car companies. Join us as we consider where the industry ...

Full Content:
Founded in 1993, The Motley Fool is a financial services company dedicated to making the world smarter, happier, and richer. The Motley Fool reaches millions of people every month through our premium investing solutions, free guidance and market analysis on Fool.com, personal finance education, top-rated podcasts, and non-profit The Motley Fool Foundation.
Founded in 1993, The Motley Fool is a financial services company dedicated to making the world smarter, happier, and richer. The Motley Fool reaches millions of people every month through our premium investing solutions, free guidance and market analysis on Fool.com, personal finance education, top-rated podcasts, and non-profit The Motley Fool Foundation.
Key Points
The automotive industry is huge and very visible. Almost everyone knows automotive brands, and most people have an opinion about the best new cars and trucks on the market.
Because of that visibility, automotive stocks have gotten lots of interest from investors for decades. We’ll look more closely at automotive stocks and the best ways to invest in them.
Some of the best-known automotive stocks are:
You’ll find the following types of stocks within the automotive industry group:
Automotive stocks are part of the consumer durables sector. This sector includes companies that make products intended to last for more than a few years, such as washing machines, dishwashers, furniture -- and cars and trucks.
Before investing in automotive stocks, it’s important to understand how economic cycles affect automotive companies and how these companies work to maximize profits and stay competitive during good and bad economic times.
Automakers and their suppliers are cyclical stocks, meaning their profits rise and fall with consumer confidence. It’s easy to see why: When businesses and consumers are worried about the economy, they postpone buying new vehicles.
Auto sales’ cyclicality matters to investors because:
One way to avoid the cyclicality of the sector is to buy stocks exposed to the replacement market, such as auto parts retailers or auto parts manufacturers that sell primarily to the secondary market.
Most automotive companies sharply cut future product spending during the 2008-09 recession. The few that didn’t, like Ford and Hyundai (HYMTF  -0.36%), had fresh products in their showrooms when the recovery began and were able to gain market share.
That was an important lesson for the industry. Now most global automakers tend to keep substantial cash reserves so they can keep investing to develop new products through recessions.
One interesting development during the COVID-19-induced recession was that many automakers decided to forgo investment in traditional internal-combustion engines in favor of EVs.
Many automotive companies also pay dividends to their shareholders. Some automakers plan to use their cash reserves to continue to pay dividends during a recession.
For the most part, automotive companies’ financial statements aren’t too hard to decipher. Here are three things to know:
Generally speaking, the automaker with the newest products will get the highest prices and the biggest profits. Automakers must constantly invest to be sure they have a steady flow of new products in the pipeline.
Virtually all automakers and many parts suppliers are also making big investments in future technologies such as EVs, extra safety features, and autonomous driving systems. Most experts believe those technologies will be necessary for automakers if they are to stay competitive in the not-too-distant future.
Some exciting opportunities in the next few years will involve manufacturers of electric and hybrid electric vehicles. These are new and different, and most analysts expect them to largely displace internal-combustion vehicles over time.
EV companies might see high growth, which is also exciting for investors. But it’s important to remember that the processes involved in developing and manufacturing EVs aren’t all that different from those used by makers of traditional internal-combustion vehicles. That means EV manufacturers face high costs, just like traditional automakers.
It’s also important to remember that all the major traditional automakers are introducing electric vehicles of their own, and the competition in this segment of the market is fierce.
That competition has intensified as a combination of relatively high interest rates has slowed demand growth at a time when many carmakers have released new EV and hybrid models. As such, the main focus over the last year or so has been on cutting costs and reducing capacity where necessary.
When people have a little extra cash, they indulge in offerings from these companies.
Get a list of the best companies to buy and hold for the long haul.
We all go shopping. These companies provide the goods we buy across industries.
A closer look at this subgroup of the basic materials sector and some of the best metals stocks to invest in.
Automotive stocks can be important contributors to your investment portfolio. And because they rise and fall with consumer confidence, they can be useful indicators that economic trouble -- or a recovery -- may be on the way.
In addition, buying into an automotive maker means taking a positive view on the company's long-term hybrid and electric vehicle strategy. That's become harder to judge as relatively high interest rates slowed the rate of growth of EV unit sales and negatively impacted pricing as competition intensifies.
Investors are willing to pay a premium for car companies with powerful electric vehicle brands, such as Tesla, and are discounting traditional internal combustion engine manufacturers. While the car industry is low-growth in terms of unit sales, the winning stocks will ultimately be those that are relevant to the transition to hybrid and electric vehicles.
China's BYD (OTC:BYDDY) is the largest EV manufacturer in the world by unit sales and is the fastest growing major automaker.
Giants like Toyota, General Motors, Ford, and Stellantis own multiple brands. Other well-known brands with U.S. listings include Tesla, Honda (NYSE:HMC), Li Auto (NASDAQ:LI), Rivian (NASDAQ:RIVN), VinFast (NASDAQ:VFS), Nio (NYSE:NIO), Lucid (NASDAQ:LCID), and XPeng (NYSE:XPEV). Lesser-known car companies such as NWTN (NASDAQ:NWTN) and Polestar (NASDAQ:PSNYW) are also listed on the U.S. market.
Tesla, Ford, and General Motors are all members of the S&P 500 index.
Related Articles

        Invest better with The Motley Fool. Get stock recommendations, portfolio guidance, and more from The Motley Fool's premium services.
      
Making the world smarter, happier, and richer.
© 1995 - 2025 The Motley Fool. All rights reserved.
Market data powered by Xignite and Polygon.io.
About The Motley Fool
Our Services
Around the Globe
Free Tools
Affiliates & Friends